# EBR Sheriff’s Office Crime Incident Data Disclaimer


The crime incident data located on the Open Data BR website depicts a reasonably accurate snapshot of the locations of crimes reported to the East Baton Rouge Sheriff’s Office (EBRSO). The EBR Sheriff’s Office Crime Incidents dataset includes daily crime incident records dating back to January 1, 2021. This date is due to a system conversion that occurred at the end of 2020 which resulted in a new format, coding, and records management framework for EBRSO crime incidents.


Reported crimes are entered into the EBRSO records management system (RMS) by the responding Deputy. The EBR Sheriff’s Office Crime Incident dataset is updated daily with all crime incident records that were entered into the RMS and approved through the prior day. Additional data associated with each incident record such as the council district, Census block group, and crime prevention district in which an incident occurred are populated using the City-Parish's geographic information system (GIS). Location information is provided for all incidents except for those involving sexual assault, domestic violence, human trafficking, and juveniles which is redacted prior to entering the Open Data BR portal to protect the anonymity and privacy of victims of the alleged assault. The incident types and number of crimes reflected in the data are based on actual police reports and categorized by the initial responding Deputy. If that Deputy mis-classifies the type of crime, or if the wrong date or any other mistaken information is inadvertently entered into the Deputy’s initial report, it could cause the data to be inaccurate. There may occasionally be errors due to the way the investigating Deputy enters the street name of where the offense occurred (e.g., North Boulevard vs. North Street, South 16th vs. North 16th, etc.). If any errors are found and corrected, the data in Open Data BR will be updated on the day following approval by the corresponding EBRSO supervisor. As is the case with any automated reporting, the process is not perfect. Posting these reports too quickly can result in sacrificing the degree of accuracy that comes with more extensive internal reviews.


As of January 1, 2021, the National Incident Based Reporting System (NIBRS) replaced Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) as the national crime data collection program for the FBI. While the EBR Sheriff’s Office crime incident data is classified and reported in accordance with initial investigative police reports to be consistent with NIBRS standards which are used to compile our official monthly submittal to the FBI, the data does not reflect our official crime statistics and should never be represented as such.


The East Baton Rouge’s Sheriff’s office official crime statistics are subjected to additional scrutiny while being compiled and therefore take longer to publish. By National Incident Based Reporting System standards, if a single incident includes multiple violations of criminal laws, only the most serious offense is counted. This is known as the hierarchy rule and based on this rule, if a single incident includes several criminal violations those may appear as multiple crimes in the dataset even though each resulted from the same incident. For example, if someone robs a business, burglarizes a storage building, and then steals a car to escape, it will appear as three different records in the EBR Sheriff’s Office Crime Incident dataset – a robbery, a burglary, and an auto theft – whereas it would only be counted as one crime (the most serious one) in subsequent NIBRS statistics. 
